Comparison-Heavy vs. Swap-Heavy

Moving refrigerators: if we want to sort a bunch of refrigerators in a warehouse 
and line them up from lowest price to highest price, the comparison is really easy, 
but the actual movement is very costly.

Fastest runner: if we want to figure out who is the fastest runner within a group 
of people by having individuals race one another, the actual comparison is costly 
and exhausting for the runners involved, but swapping two people in rank is very easy in comparison.


Computational biology: costly comparisons with expensive simulations that we run on very large sets 
of genomic data, but perhaps our vector only holds a small, unique, numeric ID for each of those 
sequences, so the swaps are actually not costly at all.

Student records: low-cost comparisons between unique, numeric student IDs, but perhaps we have a ton 
of data associated with each student record, and so the write operations are someone intensive 
compared to our comparison operations.

Other Trade-offs

1. Consistency vs. ultra-fast performance in a limited set of special cases.

    If you know you're working on an application where you know that you often encounter special cases that 
    trigger a particular algorithm's best-case runtime, you might want to select that algorithm over other 
    candidates. For example, if you're working on an application where the vectors you receive are usually 
    sorted already, you might want to use insertion sort over selection sort to capitalize on 
    insertion sort's best-case runtime of O(n).

    If you're working on an application where runtime predictability is key, or where you need to stay under 
    a particular runtime for a certain operation, you might choose an algorithm whose runtime is very consistent 
    over one that has an amazing best-case runtime in special cases but exceeds your runtime limits in others.

2. Ease of coding and debugging vs. performance.

    Do you need to quickly code up a proof-of-concept that gets a task done before a meeting with your research advisor? 
    You might choose an algorithm that is more straightforward to implement and whose logic is really easy to follow, 
    rather than trying to code up a slightly faster algorithm that is really tricky and hard to understand.

    Do you want to hyper-optimize a piece of code because you're working on an application that needs a particular task 
    to be accomplished as quickly as possible? It might be worth it to spend time implementing and testing a really 
    complicated algorithm if that leads to runtime gains compared to an algorithm that would have been easier to implement but slower to run.